## Stat 114 Final Project Vignette - GPT Integration for Biomedical PDF Summaries

The objective of this project is to automatically summarize sections of biomedical research papers as dictated by user highlights. Within this tutorial, you can use our tools to automatically create a Beamer slideshow that summarizes sections of Love et al's DESeq2 paper:

1. Clone this repo with
```sh
git clone git@github.com:MattKotzbauer/pdf-reader-vignette.git 
```
2. Mark down `love.pdf` by highlighting the starting and ending sentences of sections you would like summarized. For each pair of highlights, our program will end up summarizing the text between them. Any PDF-reading software should work for annotating the document, a few examples being
- Adobe Acrobat
- Microsoft Edge
- Preview
- Okular

For our purposes, you don't need to target more than 2-3 sections of the paper. LLM's tend to be able to more accurately summarize shorter sections (think a few paragraphs in length). 

3. Call our Python script `getTextPrompts.py` to generate LLM prompts based on your annotations: 

```sh
python getTextPrompts.py love.pdf
```

In this case, we pass your annotated verison of `love.pdf` as an argument, telling our script to use the text and locations of its annotations to generate its prompts

The content of your prompts will then be saved to `text_prompts.txt`, with each double line-separated phrase being its own prompt (and hence its own set of slides to be generated by the LLM)

4. We seek to generate a slideshow using both our PDF and your generated prompts. To do this, there are a couple of options: 
a. **Option A**: If you have OpenAI API access (https://openai.com/index/openai-api), you can use our Python script `pdfInterrogator.py` to generate the slideshow using your prompts, calling with the following command: 
```sh
python pdfInterrogator.py love.pdf text_prompts.txt
```

b. **Option B**: If you have GPT-4, you can get the PDF Summary extension by clicking on 'Explore GPTs' and searching for it. Using this, you can upload `love.pdf` using the file upload button (on the left side of the chat bar), and can then copy / paste in your prompts from `text_prompts.txt` one-by-one.

c. **Option C**: Create a free account on Clarifai (https://clarifai.com/login) and use its PDF upload feature to answer your prompts one-by-one. For more info see https://www.clarifai.com/blog/answering-questions-on-your-pdfs-data-with-llms

5. Go on Overleaf (https://www.overleaf.com) and start a blank new project. Copy and paste the slide text into the Code Editor, deleting repetitive text as needed. When you compile, you should see a slideshow generated by the LLM (if there are errors, the LLM made a mistake and you may need to debug a bit). You can now download as a PDF, giving you your final result - a slideshow generated from your annotations!








